README.md, before:

Matthew J Wolf 14-Jun-2022 

This is an unsupported and not offical version of the pandrew xwhatsit utility for the QMK firmware. 

This fork of the utility has been updated to work with my refactored build of the xwhatsit QMK firmware.
Link to the current branch that contains my refactored build:
https://github.com/matthew-wolf-n4mtt/qmk_firmware/tree/mjw_xwhatsit

The updates to the utility:
- Updated with the refactored loaction of the firmare source code.
- I added a search for old and refactored USB VID and PID.

I have tested this version of the utility in Linux. 

Below is the text of the original README file.  
-------------------------------

# Building

## Before building

If you have added a new keyboard, or changed layout macros, then please run: ```python generate_layout.py >  kbd_defs.cpp```

## Building on Linux for Linux

### Option 1: Building on local system

1) Install qt5 development packages
2) Install hidapi development packages
3) Optionally: make sure your preferred backend is selected in util.pro:
   ```
   LIBS += -lhidapi-libusb
   #LIBS += -lhidapi-hidraw
   ```
4) ```qmake-qt5 util.pro```  (or ```qmake util.pro```. NOTE: you must run the QT5 version of qmake, if you have both QT4 and QT5 installed)
5) ```make clean && make -j```
6) Optionally: add the following rules to ```/etc/udev/rules.d/my_preferred_filename.rules```
   ```
   SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="0481", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0002", MODE:="0666"
   ```
   And then restart udev
7) ```./util``` Or ```sudo ./util``` (if you have not set up udev)

### Option 2: Build with docker

In case you have trouble with dependencies.

1) ```docker build -t utilbuilder .```
2) ```docker run -it --rm  -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/root/.Xauthority --net=host -v `pwd`/../../:/xwhatsit -v /dev:/dev --privileged -w /xwhatsit/util/util utilbuilder /bin/bash```
   a) ```qmake util.pro```
   b) ```make clean && make -j```
   c) ```exit```
3) ```docker run -it --rm  -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/root/.Xauthority --net=host -v `pwd`/../../:/xwhatsit -v /dev:/dev --privileged -w /xwhatsit/util/util utilbuilder ./util```

(You can also try running directly on the local machine, if you have Qt and hidapi libraries installed)

## Building on Linux for Windows

Please see ../windows_crosscompile/README.md

## Building on Windows for Windows

This has not been tested yet. You may need to tweak util.pro for this to work. If you get it working please update this section.

## Building on MacOS for MacOS

1) Install Homebrew, see http://brew.sh
2) ```brew install qt5```
3) ```brew install hidapi```
4) Probably Optional (but haven't tried without yet): ```brew install qt-creator```
5) Change directory to where util.pro lives.
6) ```/usr/local/opt/qt5/bin/qmake util.pro```
7) ```make```
8) Run it: ```./util.app/Contents/MacOS/util```
9) Create .dmg package: ```/usr/local/opt/qt5/bin/macdeployqt util.app -dmg util```

# License

All of the files in this folder are licensed under the GNU GPLv2 (or at your option any later version) license, except when otherwise specified.

Commit message:

added pi.codes USB VID and PID

README.md, after:

Matthew J Wolf 30-April-2023

Newest update: Added support for the pi.codes USB VID and PID. 

This is an unsupported and not offical version of the pandrew xwhatsit utility for the QMK firmware. 

This fork of the utility has been updated to work with my refactored build of the xwhatsit QMK firmware.
Link to the current branch that contains my refactored build:
https://github.com/matthew-wolf-n4mtt/qmk_firmware/tree/mjw_xwhatsit

The updates to the utility:
- Updated with the refactored loaction of the firmare source code.
- I added a search for old and refactored USB VID and PID.

I have tested this version of the utility in Linux. 

This version will only find one xwhatsit keyboard on the system. So only use it when there
is one xwhatsit keyboard connected. 

Below is the text of the original README file.  
-------------------------------

# Building

## Before building

If you have added a new keyboard, or changed layout macros, then please run: ```python generate_layout.py >  kbd_defs.cpp```

## Building on Linux for Linux

### Option 1: Building on local system

1) Install qt5 development packages
2) Install hidapi development packages
3) Optionally: make sure your preferred backend is selected in util.pro:
   ```
   LIBS += -lhidapi-libusb
   #LIBS += -lhidapi-hidraw
   ```
4) ```qmake-qt5 util.pro```  (or ```qmake util.pro```. NOTE: you must run the QT5 version of qmake, if you have both QT4 and QT5 installed)
5) ```make clean && make -j```
6) Optionally: add the following rules to ```/etc/udev/rules.d/my_preferred_filename.rules```
   ```
   SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="0481", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0002", MODE:="0666"
   ```
   And then restart udev
7) ```./util``` Or ```sudo ./util``` (if you have not set up udev)

### Option 2: Build with docker

In case you have trouble with dependencies.

1) ```docker build -t utilbuilder .```
2) ```docker run -it --rm  -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/root/.Xauthority --net=host -v `pwd`/../../:/xwhatsit -v /dev:/dev --privileged -w /xwhatsit/util/util utilbuilder /bin/bash```
   a) ```qmake util.pro```
   b) ```make clean && make -j```
   c) ```exit```
3) ```docker run -it --rm  -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/root/.Xauthority --net=host -v `pwd`/../../:/xwhatsit -v /dev:/dev --privileged -w /xwhatsit/util/util utilbuilder ./util```

(You can also try running directly on the local machine, if you have Qt and hidapi libraries installed)

## Building on Linux for Windows

Please see ../windows_crosscompile/README.md

## Building on Windows for Windows

This has not been tested yet. You may need to tweak util.pro for this to work. If you get it working please update this section.

## Building on MacOS for MacOS

1) Install Homebrew, see http://brew.sh
2) ```brew install qt5```
3) ```brew install hidapi```
4) Probably Optional (but haven't tried without yet): ```brew install qt-creator```
5) Change directory to where util.pro lives.
6) ```/usr/local/opt/qt5/bin/qmake util.pro```
7) ```make```
8) Run it: ```./util.app/Contents/MacOS/util```
9) Create .dmg package: ```/usr/local/opt/qt5/bin/macdeployqt util.app -dmg util```

# License

All of the files in this folder are licensed under the GNU GPLv2 (or at your option any later version) license, except when otherwise specified.
